# Virtual_Material_Lab
The code simulates and visualizes displacement controlled mechanical tests on a unit sized material. Single scale and multiscale analyses can be performed. The visualizations are then saved as gifs.   

The virtual material lab essentially allows the user to see the effects of simple and complex material properties on pure mechanical tests. It also shows the effects of normal and shear straining as well as coupling effects. The multiscale analyses allows the visualization of two phased composites (generally fiber and matrix) and additionally shows the ffects of matrix and fiber degradation. All behavior can be customized to see the effects on deformation. 

## Theory, numerical methodology, and assumptions
The code solves an assumed linear displacement field such that it satisfies the equilibrium, continuity, and constitutive equations of a continuum solid with plane stress conditions. The solutions to these equations leads to values for the displacement field parameters. The displacement field is discretized into 9 nodes over a square (unit material) and the displacement of this unit material is visualized on application of a strain field. The strain field can be uniaxial, biaxial or triaxial and a combination of shear and normal strains, although care has to be taken to avoid overconstraining the system. This is performed by a smart reordering of the constitutive equations so that all the knowns and unknowns are consistent. See the choice option of [0 0 0 1] which implements this. Numerical integration is performed using the forward Euler method (explicit method).   
